Hi, my name is Jackie Reses.
I am the Capital lead of Square.
Square is a financial services
company that started with
payments and then evolved across
a broad ecosystem of products.
The products can range
from point of sale,
both horizontal point of sale and
vertical points of sale that
could serve retailers
specifically,
or restaurants specifically, or
services companies that
take appointments.
Then, there's a breadth
of products that also
serves small businesses
like invoices,
loyalty cards, gift
cards, capital, payroll.
So it's really
this huge seller ecosystem
to support the growth
of small businesses.
In addition to that, there's
a second ecosystem
that we've built
and that's the ecosystem
around Square Cash App.
For Cash App, there
is an ecosystem of
over 15 million monthly
users who have used
the cash card and built
cash accounts in
order to move money,
peer-to-peer payments,
use a debit card.
There's an incredible amount
of utility for
consumers on that set
of products as well.
There are three things
that I think are
really interesting about Square.
First, the ecosystem is
fascinating and it's
the ecosystem around
financial services.
Square started in
payments and then evolved
the business far beyond into
a breadth of products
that continue to create
an ecosystem for small
businesses around the country.
Second, it's an incredibly
disruptive company,
and in every aspect
of the product,
it has disrupted, and created,
and invented a new way
of thinking about
financial products,
which makes it
really interesting.
Then, third, Square sits at
a really interesting place
as it relates to
economic empowerment
and bringing the
underserved into
the financial system.
If you think about
the creation of Square,
which was the very
first white dongle
and credit card reader,
the purpose of that product was
not to read a credit card,
it was to bring people into
the financial system who might
not have been able to ever
take credit cards
in their business
before because they're
able to now have
an easy mobile device that
is simple to use and handy.
It meant more than just
the ability to take
credit card for
so many small businesses
when the company was started.
So when Square was started,
it was trying to solve
the problem that
small businesses couldn't
take credit cards.
What that actually meant
is that they couldn't
make the sale.
So, let me step back and
explain what that means.
Ten years ago, there was
no mobile payment system
for credit cards.
Jack and Jim, the two founders of
Square created a little white
dongle that's now somewhat
iconic as being perceived
as such a core design of Square.
That dongle plugged into
the headphone jack
of a mobile device.
What that enabled a small
business to do was two things.
First, they could take
the credit card, very simple.
Within a few minutes,
they were able to get up and
running and have access to
the payment system very simply
in a mobile device that
they might already own.
The second thing it enabled
them to do was actually
get into the financial system
so that they could make the sale.
Prior to Square, the way
credit card companies worked
is that it took weeks of
getting access to
a seller's personal data.
In order to be given
a credit card account,
they had to be
underwritten for risk.
With Square, we really changed
the paradigm of what
risk looks like
so that a seller was able to
be on-boarded onto the system
immediately and only removed from
the system if
anything looked off.
So that was a total change
in risk behavior.
Yeah, I think there are
four interesting dynamics
happening in FinTech today.
First, there's a disaggregation
between the data and
the data source.
So you're seeing
interesting businesses
built around APIs that have
really separated
the customer experience
and the backend sources of data.
I think that'll be
really interesting as
different combinations
of data and
end-user tools are pulled
together to create
a great experience.
Second, user-interface
so much cleaner.
We're very used to financial
apps that are complicated,
lots of words, hard to use.
I think that is
completely changing with
very simple apps that
consumers can easily use.
Next and related
is really design.
You're seeing a lot of
design first products.
It's making a huge difference
in the ability to use them.
I think they're getting a lot of
consumer residents
across the country.
Then, last, slightly
different topic,
but the ideas around
blockchain are having
a significant impact
on the invention of
infrastructure related
to the financial system.
As we see transactions
changing around the world and
evolving around the world,
you'll start to see more
blockchain technology deployed
across lots of different
financial companies
around the world.
I think business models and banks
will have a significant
change over time.
If you look at two of
the big core businesses today,
wealth management and lending,
both of them are seeing
a significant amount of
interest from fintechs
who are really
disrupting the user experience
and the product flow
of both of
those significantly impactful
industries within finance.
Over the course of 20 years,
I would expect to
see models changing,
the consumers having more power
in how their product is used,
and having the products look more
beautiful and easy to use,
far more than they are
today where they still are
incredibly cumbersome
in most cases.
I think the one fundamental
issue that will remain
within banking is that there's
always going to be
a cost to capital.
I think banks do
have an edge around
regulatory compliance,
the way they operate in terms of
their scale and
the cost of capital.
They're going to have to
work with that advantage
to figure out how they
evolve over time.
One of the biggest challenges
we're facing right
now is related to privacy.
There's a lot of
interest in looking at
privacy law around the world.
We've seen a lot of changes with
the introduction
of GDPR in Europe.
The challenge that
we're facing in
the United States
is that there is
a very significant interest in
pursuing some type of
legislation and regulatory
regime around privacy,
yet it's being adopted and
evaluated on
a state-by-state basis.
It's hard to have
national level products when
you could have such variation
from state to state.
I think the challenge is going to
be how to deal with building
legislation and momentum on
a national level so that we
can create one regime that makes
sense for all of
the United States.
I think there are
a few things that are
really important and
understanding in fintech.
First is the idea of
product development.
It's a combination of
engineering and design
and having an appreciation for
how the two work together.
I think that's
absolutely critical for
working in any company today.
The second thing is understanding
blockchain and cryptocurrency,
and really delving
into understanding
the infrastructure
and the impact that
it could have on a company.
Then, last, I think AI
is going to change
almost every job out there.
So having an appreciation
for and learning about
AI is going to be
supercritical in
any financial education.
I think one of the most
interesting things about
fintech today is that no amount
of historical skill base
will actually
help you in creating
something that's disruptive.
So it doesn't matter
what you did in school,
where you worked right after
school or how you think
about what you want to do.
It's really about the creativity
and your willingness to
invent in terms of
whether someone is going to
be successful in fintech.
Most of the models that we
see today are fairly new,
and so having more of
a mindset around growth
and a mindset around
invention is far
more important than anything
else a person could have.